Pollution refers to the presence of unwanted substances into our natural resources; polluting them and having an adverse effect on the overall environment. Environmental pollution leads to global warming and unexpected climatic changes besides depleting natural resources further damaging the environment and the life on earth.The major factors causing environmental pollution are human generated – fossil fuels production and combustion pollutes the air, use of pesticides pollutes the soil, littering of plastic pollutes the oceans and water bodies, deforestation leads to air pollution etc. Natural resources on the planet are limited but the factors polluting them are many. There is a global need to take immediate adequate measures towards restoration and preservation of natural resources, before they get damaged up to the point of no return.Pollution can be of many types like noise pollution, air pollution, soil pollution, water pollution etc. Air pollution is increasing day by day because of the growing number of automobiles, release of poisonous gases, smoke from industrial companies, finely dissolved solids, liquid aerosols, etc in the atmosphere. The air we breathe every moment causes several lungs disorders.Air pollution is one of the most dangerous forms of pollution. A biological, chemical, and physical alteration of the air occurs when smoke, dust, and any harmful gases enter into the atmosphere and make it difficult for all living beings to survive as the air becomes contaminated. Burning of fossil fuels, agriculture related activities, mining operations, exhaust from industries and factories, and household cleaning products entail air pollution. People release a huge amount of chemical substances in the air every day. The effects of air pollution are alarming. It causes global warming, acid rains, respiratory and heart problems, and eutrophication. A lot of wildlife species are forced to change their habitat in order to survive.Soil pollution occurs when the presence of pollutants, contaminants, and toxic chemicals in the soil is in high concentration that has negative effect on wildlife, plants, humans, and ground water. Industrial activity, waste disposal, agricultural activities, acid rain, and accidental oil spill are the main causes of soil pollution. This type of contamination influence health of humans, affects the growth of plants, decreases soil fertility, and changes the soil structure.Water pollution is able to lead our world on a path of destruction. Water is one of the greatest natural resources of the whole humanity. Nothing will be able to live without water. However, we do not appreciate this gift of nature and pollute it without thinking. The key causes of the water pollution are: industrial waste, mining activities, sewage and waste water, accidental oil leakage, marine dumping, chemical pesticides and fertilizers, burning of fossil fuels, animal waste, urban development, global warming, radioactive waste, and leakage from sewer lines. There is less water available for drinking, cooking, irrigating crops, and washing.
